# Java_Swing_Basics
Overview of Java Swing Components

Over the past year, I have been consistently working on an automated hotel management system. The system consists of an oracle database with an extensive Java JDBC program that makes use of lots of Oracle SQL. The project has been extremely enjoyable to work on. In fact, this was my first project which really started my passion for programming. Because of this, it has been great to be able to revisit the project and consistently improve and expand it. While the functionality of the project is excellent, I have not developed a GUI. I have a very clean and easy to use menu function which powers the program currently. This is great but can and should be improved a lot. Soon, I will be showcasing this project at various symposiums. I figured that a project that I have put so much time into deserves to have a pleasing UI experience to go with its powerful capabilities. So, I looked into various possibilities for UI and decided to go with an application-based UI. Then, after debating between AWT, Swing, and FX, decided that Swing would be the best for the program. Over the past few days, I have been trying to learn all I can about Swing. Here is an overview of some of the core and necessary components of Swing. JFrame, JButtons, JLabels, JRadioButtons, button groups, JCheckBoxes, JTextFields, boundaries, mnemonics, layouts, action listeners, action commands, JLists, JPanes, spinners, combo boxes, panels, layers, tabs, mouse listeners, change listeners, list listeners, JTree, borders, layouts, and so much more. Java Swing is based on AWT and shares many of the same libraries and logic. So, I also had to learn components of many AWT based libraries and AWT logic. Furthermore, I was able to learn so libraries within Swing and so many inbuilt functions with all of the used libraries as well as general Java in built functions. Java UI is brand new to me so I was able to absorb so much new information and programming techniques through this process. Even learning more on the data-action model was also great. I am very excited to begin to transfer my newly obtained skills to the design and implementation of my Hotel Management System UI. I will post updates as well as the final product once the UI project has been completed.
